U.S. Security Assistance to Israel:
Keeps Our Ally Safe and Promotes American Interests
June 1, 2023
A strong U.S.-Israel alliance directly advances American national security interests by
helping us combat shared threats, promote shared values and protect American troops.
To achieve these objectives, Congress annually funds $3.3 billion in security assistance
for Israel and $500 million for U.S.-Israel missile defense cooperation — as agreed to in
the 2016 U.S.-Israel Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). These funds are crucial to
help ensure the Middle East’s only democracy can defend itself — by itself — against
mounting security threats.
Helps a Strategic Ally Combat Growing Threats
• Mounting Threats: Growing instability and increasingly well-armed terror groups in the region
directly threaten the Jewish state. To its north, Israel faces Hezbollah in Lebanon and a growing
Iranian presence in Syria; to its south, Israel faces Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ) in Gaza;
to its east, militant terrorist groups are gaining strength in the West Bank and effectively control
several major cities. Meanwhile, Israel’s greatest threat remains Iran, which is advancing its nuclear
program to unprecedented levels as it provides weapons and support to its terrorist proxies
surrounding the Jewish state.
• Increasing Costs: To deal with these mounting, imminent threats, Israel — a tiny nation the
geographic size of New Jersey — has been forced to spend more on defense as a percentage of its
GDP than any other nation in the industrialized world. The rising costs of advanced weaponry only
compound Israel’s challenges. For example, a single F-35I “Adir” Joint Strike Fighter costs Israel
more than twice that of an F-16I fighter jet purchased under the first U.S.-Israel aid agreement in
1998.
Secures American Interests
• Anchor of Stability: Israel is the one stable democratic ally in the Middle East upon which America
can consistently depend. U.S.-Israel cooperation in intelligence, homeland security, missile defense
and counterterrorism has helped America meet its growing security challenges. U.S. support for
Israel also helps deter regional conflict by making clear to potential foes that they cannot defeat the
Jewish state.
• Supporting American Jobs: More than 75 percent of security assistance provided to Israel is spent
in the United States. This spending boosts the U.S. economy and helps support thousands of high-
quality American jobs across the country.
www.aipac.orgPage 2AIPAC Memo: U.S. Security Assistance to Israel (continued)
• Israeli Innovation: As a result of the strong friendship between the U.S. and Israel, the Israel Defense
Forces (IDF) and the U.S. military share vital technologies and techniques that greatly benefit both
nations. Israel has pioneered cutting-edge technologies in cyber defense, unmanned vehicles,
sensors and electronic warfare systems, and advanced defenses for military vehicles. Israeli
battlefield medical technologies have also saved countless American lives. The innovative use of U.S.
military equipment by the IDF, coupled with shared know-how, has helped the U.S. military improve
its own equipment and tactics.
• Stockpiles: Established in the 1980s, the War Reserves Stock Allies-Israel program consists of up to
$3.4 billion of U.S.-owned and -managed weapons and equipment stored in Israel for use by the U.S.
military. The IDF may access these reserves during emergencies if authorized by the U.S.
government. The U.S. drew upon the stockpile in 2022 to aid efforts to support the Ukrainian
military, and the U.S. must now move to replenish the stockpile to keep us and our allies safer and
better prepared.
Advances American Values
• Oversight in Place: Congress annually authorizes and appropriates foreign aid, subject to stringent
U.S. laws governing its use, and both Congress and the administration continually monitor how these
funds are spent. Every Israeli purchase is approved in advance by the State Department. Contrary to
what a vocal anti-Israel minority may allege, the U.S. routinely monitors Israel’s application of military
aid and has consistently found no violation of U.S. laws, including provisions to protect human rights.
• Sent with Intention: U.S. law stipulates that aid may only be used by Israel for legitimate self-
defense, internal security or participation in collective security arrangements. The 2016 MOU
(outlining the current security assistance commitments) clearly states that “the ultimate intent” of
U.S. security assistance is “to help enable Israel to defend itself by itself and develop long-term
capacity, primarily through the acquisition of advanced capabilities that are available from the United
States.”
• Added Conditions Counterproductive: The purpose of American aid is to advance our national
security by helping ensure the survival and security of our ally Israel. Political conditions, proposed
by a vocal anti-Israel minority in Congress, undermine this very goal. New restrictions would be
duplicative, counterproductive and weaken Israel’s deterrent posture. A strong Israel is the best
partner for any future peace negotiation. President Biden has called conditioning aid to Israel
“absolutely outrageous,” “irresponsible” and a “gigantic mistake,” and has said about those who
want to condition aid to Israel: “They are wrong. I think they’re making a mistake. Israel is a
democratic state, Israel is our ally, Israel is a friend. And I make no apologies.”
The Way Forward
America is stronger when Israel is secure. Congress must continue to provide our ally
Israel with the vital security assistance it needs to defend its people from growing
threats, including from Iran and its terror proxies. Congress must also work to expand
joint innovation, safeguard Israel’s qualitative military edge (QME) and ensure weapons
stockpiles in Israel are maintained with quality munitions.