Source: https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/chaimherzogunitednationszionismnotracism.htm
Title: Chaim Herzog — “Zionism is not Racism” UN speech (Nov 10, 1975)
================================================================================

Chaim Herzog - United Nations Speech on Zionism and Racism
Chaim
Herzog
United Nations
Address on Resolution 3379 (Zionism vs. Racism)
delivered 10
November 1975
[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text
version below transcribed directly from audio]
Mr.
President:
It is symbolic that this debate, which -- which may well
prove to be a turning point in the fortunes of the United Nations and a decisive
factor as to the possible continued existence of this organization, should take
place on November 10th.
Tonight, 37 years ago, has gone down in history
as
Kristallnacht, or the "Night of the Crystals."
This was the night,
on the 10th of November, 1938, when
Hitler's Nazi storm-troopers launched a coordinated attack on the Jewish
community in Germany, burnt the synagogues in all the cities, and made bonfires
in the streets of the Holy Books and the Scrolls of the Holy Law and the Bible.
It
was the night when Jewish homes were attacked and heads of families were taken away,
many of them never to return.
It was the night when the windows of all Jewish
businesses and stores were smashed, covering the streets in the cities of
Germany with a film of broken glass which dissolved into millions of
crystals, giving that night the name Kristallnacht, the Night of the Crystals.
It was the night which
eventually led
to the crematoria and the gas chambers,
Auschwitz,
Birkenau,
Dachau,
Buchenwald,
Theresienstadt, and others. It was the night which led to the most terrifying
holocaust in the history of man.
It is indeed befitting, Mr. President, that this
debate, conceived in the desire to deflect the Middle East from its moves
towards peace and born of a deep pervading feeling of
anti-Semitism, should come
up for debate on this day, which recalls one of the tragic days in one of the
darkest periods of history.
It is indeed befitting, Mr. President,
that the United Nations, which began its life as an anti-Nazi alliance, should
30 years later find itself on its way to becoming the world center of
anti-Semitism. Hitler would have felt at home on a number of occasions during
the past year, listening to the proceedings in this forum, and above all to the
proceedings during the debate on Zionism.
It [is] a sobering reflection indeed to consider to what this body
has been dragged down if we are obliged today to contemplate an attack on
Zionism. For this attack constitutes not only an anti-Semitic attack of the
foulest type, but also [an] attack, in this world body, on Judaism, one of the
oldest established religions in the world -- a religion which has given the world
the human values of the Bible; a religion from which two other great religions,
Christianity and Islam, sprang.
Is it not tragic to consider that we here at
this meeting in the year 1975 are contemplating what is a scurrilous attack on a
great and established religion which has given to the world the Bible with its
Ten Commandments; the great prophets of old, Moses, Isaiah, Amos; the great
thinkers of history, Maimonides, Spinoza, Marx, Einstein; many of the masters of
the arts; and as high a percentage of the Nobel Prize-winners in the world, in
the sciences, in the arts, in the humanities as has been achieved by any
other people on earth?
One can
but ponder and wonder at the prospect of countries, which consider themselves to
be part of the civilized world, joining in this first organized attack on a --
an established religion since the Middle Ages. Yes, Mr. President, to these
depths are we being dragged down by those who propose this
resolution to the Middle Ages.
The resolution before the Third Committee was originally a resolution condemning
racism and colonialism, a subject on which consensus could have been achieved, a
consensus which is of great importance to all of us, and to our African
colleagues in particular. However, instead of this being permitted to happen, a
group of countries, drunk with the feeling of power inherent in the automatic
majority, and without regard to the importance of achieving a consensus on this
issue, railroaded the Committee in a
contemptuous manner by the use of the automatic majority, into bracketing
Zionism with the subject under discussion. Indeed, it is difficult to speak of
this base move with any measure of restraint.
Mr.
President:
I do not
come to this rostrum to defend the moral and historic values of the Jewish
people. They do not need to be defended. They speak for themselves. They have
given to mankind much of what is great and eternal. They have done for the
spirit of man more than can readily be appreciated by a forum such as this one.
I come here to denounce the two great evils which menace society in general and
a society of nations in particular. These two evils are hatred and ignorance.
These two evils are the motivating force behind the proponents of this
resolution and their supporters. These two evils characterize those who would
drag this world organization, the idea of which was first conceived by the
prophets of Israel, to the depths to which it has been dragged today.
The key to understanding Zionism lies in its name. In the Bible, the
easternmost
of the two hills of ancient Jerusalem was called
Zion. The period was the 10th
century before Christ [sic]. In fact, the name "Zion" appears 152 times in the Old Testament
referring to Jerusalem. The name is overwhelmingly a poetic and prophetic
designation. The religious and emotional qualities of the name arise from the
importance of Jerusalem as the Royal City and the City of the Temple. "Mount
Zion" is the place where God dwells according to the Bible. Jerusalem, or Zion,
is the place where the Lord is King according to Isaiah, and where He has
installed His king, David, as quoted in the Psalms.
King David made Jerusalem the capital of Israel almost 3000 years ago, and
Jerusalem has remained the capital ever since. During the centuries the term
"Zion" grew and expanded to mean the whole of Israel. The Israelites in exile
could not forget Zion.
The Hebrew psalmist sat by the waters of Babylon and swore "If I forget thee, 0
Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its cunning."1 This oath has been repeated
for thousands of years by Jews throughout the world. It is an oath which was
made over 700 years before the advent of Christianity, and over 1200 years
before the advent of Islam.
Bearing
all these connotations in mind, Zion came to mean the Jewish homeland,
symbolic of Judaism, of Jewish national aspirations.
Every Jew, praying to his God, wherever he is in the world, faces towards
Jerusalem. These prayers have expressed for over 2000 years of exile the
yearning of the Jewish people to return to their ancient homeland, Israel. In
fact, a continuous Jewish presence, in larger or smaller numbers, has been
maintained in the country over the centuries.
Zionism is the name of the national movement of the Jewish people and is the
modern expression of the ancient Jewish heritage. The Zionist ideal, as set out
in the Bible, has been, and is, an integral part of the Jewish religion.
Zionism is to the Jewish people what the liberation movements of Africa and Asia
have been to their own people. Zionism is one of the most stirring and constructive
national movements in human history. Historically, it is based on a unique and
unbroken connection, extending some 4000 years, between the
People of the Book
and the Land of the Bible.
In modern times, in the late 19th century, spurred by the twin forces of
anti-Semitic persecution and of nationalism, the Jewish people organized the
Zionist movement in order to transform their dream into reality. Zionism, as a
political movement, was the revolt of an oppressed nation against the
depredations and the wicked discrimination and oppression of the countries in which
Zionism [anti-Semitism] flourished. It is indeed no coincidence at all, and not
surprising, that the cosponsors and supporters of this resolution include
countries who are guilty of the horrible crime of anti-Semitism and
discrimination to this very day.
Support for the aim of Zionism was written into the
League of Nations Mandate
for Palestine, and was again
endorsed by the United Nations in 1947, when the General Assembly voted by an overwhelming majority for the restoration of Jewish
independence in our ancient land.
The re-establishment of Jewish independence in Israel, after centuries of
struggle to overcome foreign conquest and exile, is a vindication of the
fundamental concepts of the equality of nations and of self-determination. To
question the Jewish people's right to national existence and freedom, is not
only to deny to the Jewish people the right accorded to every other people on
this globe but is also to deny the central precepts of the United Nations.
For Zionism is nothing more and nothing less than the Jewish people's
sense of origin and destination in the land linked eternally with its name. It
is also the instrument whereby the Jewish nation seeks an authentic fulfillment
of itself. And the drama [is] enacted in the region in which the Arab nation has
realized its sovereignty in 20 States, comprising a hundred million people in
four and a half square million miles [sic], with vast resources. The issue therefore
is not whether the world will come to terms with Arab nationalism. The question
is, at what point Arab nationalism, with its prodigious glut of advantage,
wealth, and opportunity, will come to terms with the modest but equal rights of
another Middle Eastern nation to pursue its life in security and peace.
The vicious diatribes [on] Zionism voiced here by Arab delegates, may give
this Assembly the wrong impression: that while the rest of the world supported
the Jewish national liberation movement, the Arab world was always hostile to
Zionism. This is not the case. Arab leaders, cognizant of the rights of the
Jewish people, fully endorsed the virtues of Zionism.
Sharif Hussein, the
leader of the Arab world during the First World War, welcomed the return of the
Jews to Palestine. His son,
Emir Feisal, who represented the Arab world in the
Paris Peace Conference, had this to say about Zionism on
the 3rd of March 1919 (and I quote):
We Arabs, especially the educated amongst us, look with deepest sympathy on
the Zionist movement...We will wish the Jews a hearty welcome home...We
are working together for a reformed and revised Near East, and with our two
movements complement one another. The movement is national and not
imperialistic. There is room in Syria for us both. Indeed, I think that
neither can be a success without the other.
(Unquote.)
It is
perhaps pertinent at this point to recall that in 1947, when the question of
Palestine was being debated in the United Nations, the Soviet Union strongly
supported the Jewish independence struggle. It is particularly relevant to
recall some of Mr. Andrei Gromyko's remarks on May the 14th 1947, one day [year] before our
independence (and I quote):
As we know, the aspirations of a considerable part of the Jewish people are
linked with the problem of Palestine and of its future administration. This
fact scarcely required proof...During the last war, the Jewish people
underwent exceptional sorrow and suffering. Without any exaggeration, this
sorrow and suffering are indescribable. It is difficult to express them in
dry statistics on the Jewish victims of the fascist aggressors. The Jews in
the territories, where the Hitlerites held sway, were subjected to almost
complete physical annihilation. The total number of Jews who perished at the
hands of the Nazi executioners is estimated at approximately six million....
The United Nations cannot and must not regard this situation with
indifference, since this would be incompatible with the high principles
proclaimed in its Charter, which provides for the defense of human rights,
irrespective of race, religion or sex....
The fact
that no Western European State has been able to ensure the defense of the
elementary rights of the Jewish people and to safeguard it against the violence
of the fascist executioners -- explains the aspirations of the Jews to establish
their own State. It would be unjust not to take this into consideration and to
deny the right of the Jewish people to realize this aspiration. They [Those] were the
words of Mr. Andrei Gromyko at the General Assembly session on the 14th of May 1947.
How sad it is to see here a group of nations, many of whom have but recently
freed themselves from colonial rule, deriding one of the most noble liberation
movements of this century, a movement which not only gave an example of
encouragement and determination to the people struggling for independence, but
also actively aided many of them during the period of preparation for their
independence, or immediately thereafter.
Here you have a movement, which is the embodiment of a unique pioneering spirit,
of the dignity of labor, and of enduring human values, a movement which has
presented to the world an example of social equality and open democracy, being
associated in this resolution with abhorrent political concepts.
We, in Israel, have endeavored to create a society which strives to implement
the highest ideals of society -- political, social. and cultural -- for all the
inhabitants of Israel, irrespective of religious belief, race, or sex. Show me
another pluralistic society in this world in which, despite all the difficult
problems under which we live, Jew and Arab live together with such a degree of
harmony, in which the dignity and rights of man are observed before the law, in
which no death sentence is applied, in which freedom of speech, of movement, of
thought, of expression are guaranteed, in which even movements which are
opposed to our national aims are represented in
our Parliament.
Daniel Patrick Moynihan's UN Address on Resolution 3379
The Arab delegates talk of racism. It lies not in their mouths. What has
happened to the 800,000 Jews who lived for over 2000 years in the Arab lands,
who formed some of the most ancient communities long before the advent of Islam?
Where are those communities? What happened to the people? What happened to their
property?
The Jews were once one of the
most important communities in the countries of the
Middle East -- the leaders of thought, of commerce, of medical science. Where are
they in Arab society today? You dare talk of racism when I can point with pride
to the Arab Ministers who have served in my Government; to the Arab deputy
speaker of my Parliament; to Arab officers and men serving of their own volition
in our defense, border, and police forces, frequently commanding Jewish troops;
to the hundreds of thousands of Arabs from all over the Middle East crowding the
cities of Israel every year; to the thousands of Arabs from all over the Middle
East coming for medical treatment to Israel; to the peaceful coexistence which
has developed; to the fact that Arabic is an official language in Israel on a
par with Hebrew; to the fact that it is as natural for an Arab to serve in
public office in Israel as it is incongruous to think of a Jew serving in any
public office in any Arab country, indeed being admitted to many of them.
Is
that racism? It is not. That, Mr. President, is Zionism.
It is our attempt to build a society, imperfect though it may be
-- and what
society is perfect? -- in which the visions of the prophets of Israel will be
realized. I know that we have problems. I know that many disagree with our
Government's policies. Many in Israel, too, disagree from time to time with the
Government's policies, and are free to do so, because Zionism has created the
first and only real democratic State in a part of the world that never really
knew democracy and freedom of speech.
This malicious resolution, designed to divert us from its true purpose, is part
of a dangerous anti-Semitic idiom which is being insinuated into every public
debate by those who have sworn to block the current move towards accommodation
and ultimately towards peace in the Middle East. This, together with similar
moves, is designed to sabotage the efforts of the Geneva Conference for peace in
the Middle East, and to deflect those who are moving along the road towards
peace from their purpose. But they will not succeed, for I can but reiterate my
Government's policy to make every move in the direction towards peace based on
compromise.
Mr.
President:
We are seeing here today but another manifestation of the bitter anti-Semitic,
anti-Jewish hatred which animates Arab society.
Who would have believed that in
the year 1975 the malicious falsehoods of the
Elders of Zion would be
distributed officially by Arab Governments?
Who would have believed that we
would today contemplate an Arab society which teaches the vilest anti-Jewish
hate in the kindergartens?
Who would have believed that an Arab Head of State
would feel obliged to indulge publicly in anti-Semitism of the cheapest nature
when visiting a friendly nation?
We are being attacked by a society which is
motivated by the most extreme form of racism known in the world today. This is
the racism which was expressed so succinctly in the words of the leader of the
PLO [Palestine Liberation Organization],
Yasser Arafat, in his opening address
at a symposium in Tripoli, Libya (and I quote): "There will be no presence in this
region except for the Arab presence" (unquote). In other words, in the Middle East, from
the Atlantic Ocean to the Persian Gulf, only one presence is allowed, and that
is the Arab presence. No other people, regardless of how deep are its roots in
the region, is to be permitted to enjoy its rights of self-determination.
Look at the
tragic fate of the Kurds in Iraq. Look
what happened to the black
population in southern Sudan. Look at the dire peril in which an entire
community of Christians finds itself in Lebanon. Look at the avowed policy of
the PLO, which calls, in its Palestine Covenant, for the destruction of the
State of Israel, which denies any form of compromise on the Palestine issue, and
which, in the words of its representative only the other day in this building,
considers Tel Aviv to be occupied territory. Look at all this and you'll see before
you the root cause of the pernicious resolution brought before this Assembly.
You'll see the twin evils of this world at work: the blind hatred of the Arab
proponents of this resolution, and the abysmal ignorance and wickedness of those
who support them.
Mr.
President:
The issue before this Assembly is not Israel and not Zionism. The issue is
the fate of this Organization. Conceived in the spirit of the prophets of
Israel, born out of an anti-Nazi alliance after the tragedy of World  War
II, it has degenerated into a forum which was this last week described by [Paul
Johnson] one
of the leading writers in a foremost organ of social and liberal thought in the
West as (and I quote):
...rapidly
becoming one of the most corrupt and corrupting creations in the whole
history of human institutions...almost without exception those in the
majority come from States notable for racist oppression of every conceivable
hue....
He goes
on to explain the phenomenon of this debate (and I quote):
Israel is a social democracy, the nearest approach to a free socialist State
in this world; its people and Government have a profound respect for human life, so
passionate indeed that, despite every conceivable provocation, they have
refused for a quarter of a century to execute a single captured terrorist.
They also have an ancient but vigorous culture, and a flourishing
technology. The combination of national qualities they have assembled in
their brief existence as a State is a perpetual and embittering reproach to
most of the new countries whose representatives swagger about the UN [United
Nations] building. So Israel is envied and hated, and
*efforts are made to
destroy her. The extermination of the Israelis has long been the prime
objective of the Terrorist international; they calculate*2 that if they can
break Israel, then all the rest of civilization is vulnerable to their
assaults.
And then
he goes on to conclude:
The melancholy truth, I fear, is that the candles of civilization are
burning low. The world is increasingly governed not so much by capitalism,
or communism, or social democracy, or even tribal barbarism, as by a false
lexicon of political clichés, accumulated over half a century and now
assuming a kind of degenerate sacerdotal authority...We all know what they
are....
(End of
quote.)
Mr.
President:
Over the centuries it has fallen to the lot of my
people to be the testing agent of human decency, the touchstone of civilization,
the crucible in which enduring human values are to be tested. A nation's level
of humanity could invariably be judged by its behavior towards its Jewish
population. It always began with the Jews but never ended with them.
The anti-Jewish pogroms in Czarist Russia were but the tip of the iceberg which
revealed the inherent rottenness of the regime which was soon to disappear in
the storm of revolution. The anti-Semitic excesses of the Nazis merely
foreshadowed the catastrophe which was to befall mankind in Europe.
This wicked resolution must sound the alarm for all decent people in the world.
The Jewish people, as a testing agent, has unfortunately never erred. The
implications inherent in this shameful move are terrifying indeed.
Mr.
President:
On this issue, the world, as represented in this hall, has divided itself into
good and bad, decent and evil, human and debased. We, the Jewish people, will
recall in history our gratitude to those nations who stood up and were counted
and who refused to support this wicked proposition. I know that this episode
will have strengthened the forces of freedom and decency in this world and will
have fortified them in their resolve to strengthen the ideals they so value. I
know that this episode will have strengthened Zionism as it has weakened the
United Nations.
Mr.
President:
As I stand on this rostrum, the long and proud history of my people unravels
itself before my inward eye, I see the oppressors of our people over the ages as
they pass one after another in evil procession into oblivion.
I stand here
before you as the representative of a strong and flourishing people which has
survived them all and which will survive this shameful exhibition and the
proponents of this resolution.
Mr.
President:
I stand
here as the representative of a people
one of whose prophets gave to this world the sublime prophecy which animated the
founders of this world Organization and which graces the entrance to this
building: "...nation shall not lift up sword against nation, nor shall they
learn war any more."3
Three verses before this, the Prophet Isaiah proclaimed
(and I quote it in the Hebrew original): [delivered first in Hebrew]. "And it
shall come to pass in the end of the days...for out of Zion shall go forth the
law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem."4
Mr.
President:
As I stand on this rostrum, the great moments of Jewish history come to mind as
I face you, once again outnumbered and the would-be victim of hate, ignorance,
and evil. I look back on those great moments. I recall the greatness of a nation
which I have the honor to represent in this forum. I am mindful at this moment
of the Jewish people throughout the world wherever they may be, be it in freedom
or in slavery, whose prayers and thoughts are with me at this moment.
Mr.
President:
I stand not here as a supplicant. Vote as your moral con[science] dictates to
you. For the issue is not Israel or Zionism. The issue is the continued
existence of the Organization which has been dragged to its lowest point of
discredit by a coalition of despotisms and racists.
The vote of each delegation will record in history its country's stand on
anti-Semitic racism and anti-Judaism. You yourselves bear the responsibility for
your stand before history, for as such will you be viewed in history. But we,
the Jewish people, will not forget.
For us, the Jewish people, this is but a passing episode in a rich and event-filled history. We put our trust in our Providence, in our faith and
beliefs, in our time-hallowed tradition, in our striving for social advance and
human values, and in our people wherever they may be.
For us, the Jewish people,
this resolution, based on hatred, falsehood and arrogance, is devoid of any
moral or legal value.
For us, the Jewish people, this is no more than a piece of
paper, and we shall treat it as such.
See Also:
Daniel Patrick Moynihan's UN Address on Resolution
3379
1
Psalm 137:5
2
content within red asterisks absent from above
audio and unverified as delivered
3
Isaiah: 2:4
4
Isaiah: 2:3
Page Updated: 5/13/21
U.S. Copyright Status:
Text = Uncertain.
Top 100 American Speeches
Online Speech Bank
Movie Speeches © Copyright 2001-Present.
American Rhetoric.