Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu held a speech yesterday ( 25th of October ) on the Swords of Iron operation. In his speech, the Prime Minister felt the need to remind his people, that to win this war, unity would be the key ; and therefore no political consideration would take place within the Government. 
He added that all the security forces, the IDF and all the Government’s members are doing everything in their power to bring the captives home and to exterminate the enemy. 

" All Hamas members are mortal, above ground, below ground, inside Gaza and outside Gaza. " The Prime Minister was crystal clear : Hamas in its entirety is cruel and evil. No exception can be made. 

"Hamas is ISIS and ISIS is Hamas. Our war against Hamas is a war for all humanity. "
The great enemy that is Hamas doesn’t stop at the Israeli borders, Hamas is a threat for the entire humanity. Their goal is to exterminate and harm as much as possible, following ISIS ideology. Hamas acts the same way the Nazis did, with one goal in mind : wanting the Jews to be whipped off the map. Hamas terrorists will stop at nothing to make they dream come true. Their own people’s lives don’t even matter to them ; seeing as they use the Palestinian people as human shields and forbid them to leave when trying to flee the war. 

" I repeat to the non-involved population in Gaza: evacuate to the south of the strip. "
Just as he did so many times before, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu calls to all the Palestinian citizens - wanting no part in Hamas’ horrible actions - to flee towards the south of the Gaza Strip. The Israeli Government doesn’t want any innocent lives to be taken away in this war ; that is why before attacking Gaza and erasing Hamas, the Prime Minister and IDF take the time to remind the citizens to flee as far away as possible, in hope to be spared.

" We are children of light and they are children of darkness and the light will overcome the darkness " A meaningful and hopeful quote from the Prime Minister during his speech. 
The light will always overcome the darkness. The good will always win against the evil. 

"Together we will fight, together we will win "
Again, a reminder that we are all in this together. That our unity will be our victory. 
Israel will win this war against one of the greatest threat to humanity : Hamas.