Oct 8 (Reuters) - The Palestinian Islamist group Hamas launched the biggest attack on Israel in years on Saturday.
The following is reaction from around the world.
The Reuters Gulf Currents newsletter brings you the latest on geopolitics, energy and finance in the region. Sign up here.
UNITED STATES
"There is never any justification for terrorism. We stand in solidarity with the government and people of Israel, and extend our condolences for the Israeli lives lost in these attacks," U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement released by the State Department.
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said: "Over the coming days the Department of Defense will work to ensure that Israel has what it needs to defend itself and protect civilians from indiscriminate violence and terrorism."
UNITED NATIONS
U.N. Middle East peace envoy Tor Wennesland said: "This is a dangerous precipice, and I appeal to all to pull back from the brink."
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Tuerk said: "This attack is having a horrific impact on Israeli civilians ... Civilians must never be the target of attack."
PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT MAHMOUD ABBAS
The Palestinian people have the right to defend themselves against the "terror of settlers and occupation troops," the official news agency WAFA quoted Abbas as saying.
IRAN
An adviser to Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei on Saturday congratulated Palestinian fighters, the semi-official ISNA news site reported. "We will stand by the Palestinian fighters until the liberation of Palestine and Jerusalem," it quoted Yahya Rahim Safavi as saying.
Iran's state television showed parliament members rising from their seats to chant "Death to Israel".
Iran's foreign ministry spokesperson Nasser Kanaani spokesperson was quoted by ISNA as saying: "In this operation, the element of surprise and other combined methods were used, which show the Palestinian people's confidence in the face of the occupiers."
CHINA
The Chinese foreign ministry urged relevant parties "to remain calm, exercise restraint and immediately end the hostilities to protect civilians and avoid further deterioration of the situation".
"The fundamental way out of the conflict lies in implementing the two-state solution and establishing an independent State of Palestine," the foreign ministry said.
GERMAN CHANCELLOR OLAF SCHOLZ
"Terrifying news reaches us today from #Israel. We are deeply shocked by the rocket fire from Gaza and the escalating violence. Germany condemns these attacks by Hamas and stands by Israel," Scholz said on social media.
FRENCH PRESIDENT EMMANUEL MACRON
Macron strongly condemned the attacks.
"I express my full solidarity with the victims, and their families and those close to them," he said.
SAUDI ARABIA
The foreign ministry called for an "immediate cessation of violence".
EGYPTIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY
Egypt warned of "grave consequences" and called for "exercising maximum restraint and avoiding exposing civilians to further danger".
MOROCCO
Morocco, which is moving towards full diplomatic ties with Israel under the so-called "Abraham Accords", voiced "deep concern" and condemned attacks on civilians "where ever they are".
However, Morocco's Islamist PJD party, which had been the largest in parliament until elections in 2021, praised the Hamas attack as "a heroic act" and "a natural and legitimate reaction to daily violations".
EU FOREIGN POLICY CHIEF JOSEP BORRELL
"Using civilians as hostages is a blatant violation of all laws. I will do my utmost to contribute to their freedom," Borrell said.
He added he was travelling to Muscat, Oman to meet Arab counterparts. "Even at this tragic moment, we recall the importance of working towards a lasting and sustainable peace through reinvigorated efforts in the Middle East Peace Process," he said.
CANADIAN PRIME MINISTER JUSTIN TRUDEAU
"Canada strongly condemns the current terrorist attacks against Israel. These acts of violence are completely unacceptable. We stand with Israel and fully support its right to defend itself. Our thoughts are with everyone affected by this. Civilian life must be protected," he said on X, formerly known as Twitter.
BRITISH FOREIGN MINISTER JAMES CLEVERLY
"The UK unequivocally condemns the horrific attacks by Hamas on Israeli civilians. The UK will always support Israel’s right to defend itself," Cleverly said.
EUROPEAN UNION
EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said: "I unequivocally condemn the attack carried out by Hamas terrorists against Israel. It is terrorism in its most despicable form."
TURKISH PRESIDENT TAYYIP ERDOGAN
"We call for restraint from all parties," Erdogan said.
QATAR
The foreign ministry said Israel alone was responsible for the ongoing escalation of violence with the Palestinian people, and called for both sides to show restraint.
RUSSIAN DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER MIKHAIL BOGDANOV
Russia is in contact with Israel, the Palestinians and Arab countries in connection with the escalation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Bogdanov said, urging restraint.
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKIY
Zelenskiy condemned what he called a "terror attack" on Israel and said Israel's right to defend itself "cannot be doubted".
HEZBOLLAH
The Iran-backed Lebanese group Hezbollah, an arch foe of Israel, said it was in "direct contact with the leadership of the Palestinian resistance" and described events as a "decisive response to Israel's continued occupation and a message to those seeking normalisation with Israel".
POLISH PRESIDENT ANDRZEJ DUDA
"I'm shocked by today's brutal attacks on Israel by Hamas. Rockets attacks and detention of civilians as hostages arouse our deepest opposition. Poland strongly condemns all acts of violence," Duda said on Saturday.
CZECH PRESIDENT PETR PAVEL
"The attack conducted from the Gaza Strip is a deplorable act of terrorism against the State of Israel and the civilian population," Pavel said in a statement.
"The rocket attacks and the infiltration of Hamas commandos into Israel will block any efforts for a peaceful solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict for a long time."
ITALIAN PRIME MINISTER'S OFFICE
"A meeting chaired by Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni was held today on the dramatic situation unfolding in Israel, which has been the target of a military and terrorist attack," a statement said on Saturday.
"The government is following the evolution of the situation with concern... Particular attention is being paid to the security of the Jewish community in the country."
JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER FUMIO KISHIDA
"Hamas and other Palestinian militants attacked Israel from Gaza yesterday. Japan strongly condemns the attacks which severely harmed innocent civilians. I express my condolences to the bereaved families and heartfelt sympathies to the injured," Kishida said on X, formerly known as Twitter.
"A number of people were reportedly abducted by the militants. Japan strongly condemns such acts and urges their immediate release. Japan is deeply concerned about a number of casualties in Gaza as well. All the parties concerned should exercise maximum restraint."
AFRICAN UNION
Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the Commission of the African Union, said: "Denial of the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, particularly that of an independent and sovereign State, is the main cause of the permanent Israeli-Palestinian tension."
"The Chairperson urgently appeals to both parties to put an end to military hostilities and to return, without conditions, to the negotiating table."
KUWAIT
Kuwait expressed its "grave concern" over developments between Israel and the Palestinians, blaming Israel for what it called its "blatant attacks".
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
"The UAE calls for the exercise of maximum restraint and an immediate ceasefire to avoid serious repercussions," the official news agency quoted the foreign ministry as saying.
INDONESIA
"Indonesia is very concerned about the increasing escalation of the conflict between Palestine and Israel," the foreign ministry the world’s largest Muslim-majority country said on X.
"Indonesia requests that acts of violence stop immediately to avoid increasing human casualties. The root of the conflict, namely the occupation of the Palestinian territories by Israel, must be resolved according to the parameters agreed upon by the U.N."
KENYA
"We repudiate the planners, funders and implementers of this heinous attack. While Israel has a right to retaliate, a peaceful path to resolving this unfortunate development is urged," Korir Sing'oei, principal secretary at Kenya's foreign ministry, said on X.
UGANDA
President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda said: "The break out of renewed violence in Israel- Palestine is regrettable. Why don’t the two sides implement the two States’ Solution? To be condemned, in particular, is the practice of targeting civilians and non- combatants by the belligerents."